README.md, before:

# Exploring-Autoencoders
Learning about auto encoders and latent spaces

Requirements:
- Pytorch (torchvision)
- matplotlib



## So far:

#### Trivial solution for MNIST reconstruction:

I trained a neural network with no bias and activation with the following architecture on the image reconstruction task:

784 (input) -> 784 (latent) -> (784) output


First, I trained the to achieve a near-perfect photometric loss on the validation set on MNIST, I trained for 100 epochs with LR scheduling. Once I achieved the loss I wanted,
I then computed (W1)(W2) and (W2)(W1). Here are their heatmaps below. 

(W1)(W2):

![w1w2](https://github.com/AditMeh/Exploring-Autoencoders/blob/main/images/w1_w2.png)

(W2)(W1):

![w2w1](https://github.com/AditMeh/Exploring-Autoencoders/blob/main/images/w2_w1.png)


The second set of weights appears to have higher off-diagonal values in the visualziation, I believe this is because it has very small negative values of the diagonal, so the
visualization messes up a little bit.

Here is a clipped version ([0, inf)).

![w2w1](https://github.com/AditMeh/Exploring-Autoencoders/blob/main/images/w2_w1_clipped.png)


As evidenced, it appears the network has learned an identity transformation, with W1 and W2 being inverses. 

#### CAE, L1 constrainted AE:
I've implemented and trained contractive autoencoders and constrained AE. I won't write about them in detail.

### VAE

So far, I've trained a VAE with a gaussian posterior on MNIST:

Here is a visualization. For each cell with an image, I am interpolating between two randomly sample images from the dataset:

![w2w1](https://github.com/AditMeh/Exploring-Autoencoders/blob/main/images/test.gif)

Commit message:

cleaner and smaller visualziation of trivial solution

README.md, after:

# Exploring-Autoencoders
Learning about auto encoders and latent spaces

Requirements:
- Pytorch (torchvision)
- matplotlib



## So far:

#### Trivial solution for MNIST reconstruction:

I trained a neural network with no bias and activation with the following architecture on the image reconstruction task:

784 (input) -> 784 (latent) -> (784) output


First, I trained the to achieve a near-perfect photometric loss on the validation set on MNIST, I trained for 100 epochs with LR scheduling. Once I achieved the loss I wanted,
I then computed (W2)(W1) and plotted the heatmap below. 

(W2)(W1):

![w2w1](https://github.com/AditMeh/Exploring-Autoencoders/blob/main/images/trivialsolution.png)

The second set of weights appears to have higher off-diagonal values in the visualization, I believe this is because it has very small negative values of the diagonal, so the
visualization messes up a little bit. Therefore, I clipped the values on the right plot so we can clearly see the identity matrix.



As evidenced, it appears the network has learned an identity transformation, with W1 and W2 being inverses. 

#### CAE, L1 constrainted AE:
I've implemented and trained contractive autoencoders and constrained AE. I won't write about them in detail.

### VAE

So far, I've trained a VAE with a gaussian posterior on MNIST:

Here is a visualization. For each cell with an image, I am interpolating between two randomly sample images from the dataset:

![w2w1](https://github.com/AditMeh/Exploring-Autoencoders/blob/main/images/test.gif)
